added wg-policy-spotlight blog (#534)
kubernetes/contributor-site: content/en/blog/2025/wg-policy-spotlight-2025.md

 
**Can you give me an idea of the work you did in the group?**

We worked on several Kubernetes policy-related projects. Our initiatives included:

- We worked on a Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal (KEP) for the Kubernetes Policy Reports API. This aims to standardize how policy reports are generated and consumed within the Kubernetes ecosystem.
- We conducted a CNCF survey to better understand policy usage in the Kubernetes space. This helped gauge the practices and needs across the community at the time.
- We wrote a paper that will guide users in achieving PCI-DSS compliance for containers. This is intended to help organizations meet important security standards in their Kubernetes environments.
- We also worked on a paper highlighting how shifting security down can benefit organizations. This focuses on the advantages of implementing security measures earlier in the development and deployment process.

**Can you tell us what were the main objectives of the Policy Working Group and some of your key accomplishments?**

The charter of the Policy WG was to help standardize policy management for Kubernetes and educate the community on best practices.

> To accomplish this we updated the Kubernetes documentation ([Policies | Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy)), produced several whitepapers ([Kubernetes Policy Management](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/blob/main/sig-security-docs/papers/policy/CNCF_Kubernetes_Policy_Management_WhitePaper_v1.pdf), [Kubernetes GRC](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/blob/main/sig-security-docs/papers/policy_grc/Kubernetes_Policy_WG_Paper_v1_101123.pdf)), and created the Policy Reports API ([API reference](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/master/policy-report/docs/index.html)) which standardizes reporting across various tools. Several popular tools such as Falco, Trivy, Kyverno, kube-bench, and others support the Policy Report API. A major milestone for the Policy WG was promoting the Policy Reports API to a SIG-level API or finding it a stable home.

Reviewer: The link here needs an update. 
- After https://github.com/kubernetes-retired/wg-policy-prototypes/pull/135, the api reference was moved to https://github.com/kubernetes-retired/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/master/policy-report/docs/api-docs.md. 

```suggestion
To accomplish this we updated the Kubernetes documentation ([Policies | Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy)), produced several whitepapers ([Kubernetes Policy Management](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/blob/main/sig-security-docs/papers/policy/CNCF_Kubernetes_Policy_Management_WhitePaper_v1.pdf), [Kubernetes GRC](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/blob/main/sig-security-docs/papers/policy_grc/Kubernetes_Policy_WG_Paper_v1_101123.pdf)), and created the Policy Reports API ([API reference](https://github.com/kubernetes-retired/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/master/policy-report/docs/api-docs.md)) which standardizes reporting across various tools. Several popular tools such as Falco, Trivy, Kyverno, kube-bench, and others support the Policy Report API. A major milestone for the Policy WG was promoting the Policy Reports API to a SIG-level API or finding it a stable home.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Spotlight on Policy Working Group"
slug: wg-policy-spotlight-2025

> date: 2025-02-02

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2025-05-22
draft: true # remove this line to mark for publication
```

Reviewer 2: Please make a similar change to the k/website PR.

> date: 2025-05-22

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
draft: true
date: 2025-05-22
```

We'll merge this as a draft and then send in follow-up PRs that remove the `draft: true` part.

author: "Arujjwal Negi"
---  

In the complex world of Kubernetes, policies play a crucial role in managing and securing clusters. But have you ever wondered how these policies are developed, implemented, and standardized across the Kubernetes ecosystem? To answer that, let's put the spotlight on the Policy Working Group.

The Policy Working Group is dedicated to a critical mission: providing an overall architecture that encompasses both current policy-related implementations and future policy proposals in Kubernetes. Their goal is both ambitious and essential: to develop a universal policy architecture that benefits developers and end-users alike.

Through collaborative methods, this working group is striving to bring clarity and consistency to the often complex world of Kubernetes policies. By focusing on both existing implementations and future proposals, they're working to ensure that the policy landscape in Kubernetes remains coherent and accessible as the technology evolves.

> In this blog post, we'll dive deeper into the work of the Policy Working Group, guided by insights from its co-chairs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this blog post, I'll dive deeper into the work of the Policy Working Group, guided by insights from its co-chairs:
```

per https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/#article-content (we try to avoid “we“, especially when it's unclear which group is meant)

Reviewer 2: I forgot to say before, but it's important.

During the spoken part of the discussion, “we” has whatever meaning the people speaking intended it to have, and that's fine.

-   [Jim Bugwadia](https://twitter.com/JimBugwadia)
-   [Poonam Lamba](https://twitter.com/poonam-lamba)
-   [Andy Suderman](https://twitter.com/sudermanjr)

> Interviewed by [Arujjwal Negi](https://twitter.com/arujjval).

Reviewer 2: _Interviewed by [Arujjwal Negi](https://twitter.com/arujjval)._

> These co-chairs will let us know what the Policy working group is all about.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These co-chairs will explain what the Policy working group is all about.
```
per https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/#article-content (we try to avoid “we“ and “us”, especially when it's unclear which group is meant)

Reviewer 2: I forgot to say before, but it's important.

During the spoken part of the discussion, “we” has whatever meaning the people speaking intended it to have, and that's fine.

*Response to further questions is represented as an amalgamation of responses from co-chairs*

## About Working Groups

**One thing even I am not aware of is the difference between a working group and a SIG. Can you help us understand what a working group is and how it is different from a SIG?**

Unlike SIGs, working groups are temporary and focused on tackling specific, cross-cutting issues or projects that may involve multiple SIGs. Their lifespan is defined, and they disband once they've achieved their objective. Generally, working groups don't own code or have long-term responsibility for managing a particular area of the Kubernetes project.

> (To know more about SIGs, visit [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-list.md))

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
(To know more about SIGs, visit the [list of Special Interest Groups](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-list.md))
```

**Can you tell me more about those challenges? How did you discover each one? What has the impact been? Do you have ideas or strategies about how to address them?**

There are no easy answers, but having more contributors and maintainers greatly helps! Overall the CNCF community is great to work with and is very welcoming to beginners. So, if folks out there are hesitating to get involved, I highly encourage them to attend a WG or SIG meeting and just listen in.

It often takes a few meetings to fully understand the discussions, so don't feel discouraged if you don't grasp everything right away. We've started emphasizing this point and encourage new members to review documentation as a starting point for getting involved.

Additionally, differences of opinion are valued and encouraged within the Policy-WG. We adhere to the CNCF core values and resolve disagreements by maintaining respect for one another. We also strive to timebox our decisions and assign clear responsibilities to keep things moving forward.

> ## New Contributors

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
## New contributors
```

**What skills are expected from new contributors and how can they get involved with the Policy Working Group?**

The Policy WG is ideal for anyone who is passionate about Kubernetes security, governance, and compliance and wants to help shape the future of how we build, deploy, and operate cloud-native workloads.

Join the mailing list as described on our community [page](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/wg-policy/README.md) and attend one of our upcoming [community meetings](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-policy#meetings).

---

> This is where our discussion about the Policy Working Group ends. We hope this gave you some insights into the group's aims and workings. Of course, this is just the tip of the iceberg. To learn more and get involved with the Policy Working Group, consider attending their meetings. You can find the schedule and join their discussions [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-policy).

Reviewer 2: Maybe:
```suggestion
This is where our discussion about the Policy Working Group ends. The working group, and especially the people who took part in this article, hope this gave you some insights into the group's aims and workings. Of course, this is just the tip of the iceberg. To learn more and get involved with the Policy Working Group, consider attending their meetings. You can find the schedule and join their [discussions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-policy).
```

per https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/blog/article-submission/#article-content (we try to avoid “we“, especially when it's unclear which group is meant); also, we avoid "here".

Reviewer 2: I forgot to say before, but it's important.

During the spoken part of the discussion, “we” has whatever meaning the people speaking intended it to have, and that's fine.
